.. vim: ft=rst:

=====================
Hackn Design Document
=====================


Hackn is a nethack-inspired “roguelike” game. Like nethack, hackn is
played in a terminal (here, other ‘GUI’-interface variants of nethack
are considered blasphemous and their existance shall hereafter be
ignored), and consists of the player exploring a largely
randomly-generated environment with various hostile and non-hostile
elements. Hackn has its own setting and backstory, which will be seen to
be influenced not only by nethack, but also by D&D and TRPG elements
that can be found in, for instance, the Baldur’s Gate series, the Elder
Scrolls games, NWN and Star Wars: KotOR among others.

The random generation in hackn is intended to be quite ambitious,
encompassing not only random placement of items and monsters, but random
maps, random cities/locations, random NPCs, random story elements, even
random gods and random player goals.


Story
=====

The war among the gods is neverending. It began when Kdr first sprang
into existence from the chaos of the void, closely followed by his
sister Vr. It is the nature of the gods to vie against one another, as
it is the nature of wolves to vie for position in the pack.

The war among the gods is neverending, and thus largely without urgency.
Sometimes, however, every few thousands of years, through some quirk of
fate a *prime urge* appears to rock the balance of power. Such a *prime
urge* may take many forms, but common to all is the potential to cause
a god’s downfall.

In the time of one *prime urge*, your god has become weak and faces loss
in its conflicts with other gods. In order to strengthen its position
and drag down its competitors, it desires control of the urge. You, as
the greatest (to be honest, the only) champion of your god, are
commanded to find the *prime urge* and gain control of it.

Will you follow your god’s command loyally and give it victory? Or do
you make use of the *urge*\’s power for your own ends? Perhaps you have
no interest in this power struggle, and simply seek your own adventures?
But beware, for your god can be a powerful ally, or a vengeful enemy.


Setting
=======

Player Character
----------------

The PC has the following characteristics:

- Race
- Gender
- Romantic Predilection
- Alignment
- Class
- Attributes
- Skills

Of these characteristics, the first three are quite broad, and
principally affect how NPCs react to and interact with the player
character, as does *Alignment*. *Alignment* consists of two dimensions:
the Lawful-Chaotic dimension, and the Good-Evil dimension. In addition
to NPC interactions, *Alignment* may affect the choice of player’s god,
and the player’s ultimate goal in the game. It may also have a subtle
effect on skills available to the player.

*Class* and *Attributes* are familiar concepts from TRPGs. *Attributes*
are the innate attributes of the player characters such as physical
strength, wisdom, magical ability, etc.

.. note::
    The class system may be simple or complex; the possibility of
    multiple classes, sub-class systems, changing classes etc.


